.TH PODLINER 1 "2025-11-18" "podliner 1.1.6" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
podliner \- terminal podcast player
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B podliner
[\-h|\-\-help] [\-V|\-\-version]
[\-\-engine ENGINE]
[\-\-theme THEME]
[\-\-feed URL]
[\-\-search QUERY]
[\-\-opml\-import FILE [\-\-import\-mode MODE]]
[\-\-opml\-export FILE]
[\-\-offline]
[\-\-ascii]
[\-\-log\-level LEVEL]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B podliner
is a cross\-platform terminal podcast player. It supports local/remote playback, a download queue, OPML import/export, and a keyboard\-driven TUI.

In the TUI, press
.B :
to open the command palette. Type
.B :help
to see commands, keys, and engine capabilities.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show help and exit.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-engine ENGINE
Preferred audio engine. Canonical values:
.B auto
|
.B vlc
|
.B mpv
|
.B ffplay
|
.B mediafoundation
(Windows only).
.TP
.B \-\-theme THEME
UI theme. Common values:
.B base
|
.B accent
(menu accent)
|
.B native
|
.B auto .
.TP
.B \-\-feed URL
Preselect a feed at startup.
.TP
.B \-\-search QUERY
Apply a search filter at startup.
.TP
.B \-\-opml\-import FILE
Import feeds from OPML. Use with
.B \-\-import\-mode
.
.TP
.B \-\-import\-mode MODE
OPML import behavior:
.B add
(append) or
.B replace
(clear and import).
.TP
.B \-\-opml\-export FILE
Export current feeds to OPML.
.TP
.B \-\-offline
Start in offline mode (no network fetches).
.TP
.B \-\-ascii
Force ASCII glyphs (disable Unicode box drawing).
.TP
.B \-\-log\-level LEVEL
Logging level:
.B debug
|
.B info
|
.B warn
|
.B error .
.SH COMMANDS (IN TUI)
Type
.B :
then a command. Examples:
.PP
.B :refresh
(update feeds),
.B :downloads
(show queue),
.B :engine mpv
(switch engine),
.B :q
(quit).
Run
.B :help
for the full catalog.
.SH FILES
Podliner follows XDG directories.
.TP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/podliner/appsettings.json
User preferences (theme, layout, UI options).
.TP
.B $XDG_DATA_HOME/podliner/library/library.json
Library (feeds, episodes, queue, history).
.TP
.B $XDG_DATA_HOME/podliner/downloads/
Downloaded audio files (outside the library database).
.PP
If variables are unset, defaults are
.B ~/.config
and
.B ~/.local/share
respectively.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B PODLINER_GLYPHS
Set to
.B ascii
to force ASCII glyphs.
.TP
.B http_proxy, https_proxy, no_proxy
Standard proxy variables honored by HTTP requests.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on success; non\-zero on failure.
.SH BUGS
Issues and feature requests are welcome on the project’s issue tracker.
.SH AUTHORS
Podliner authors and contributors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR man (1),
.BR groff (1)

